# Sugary beverages

* Study by Jue, Press, ..., Loewenstein

## Introduction

The objective of this study is to examine the efficacy of alternative
approaches intended to shift consumers toward zero calorie beverages
consumption. Specifically, we consider the impact of two simple visual
presentations of calorie content: posters which emphasize the average number of
calories in a typical beverage and/or the amount of physical activity required
to burn those calories. In addition, we examine the impact of a price discount
and a combination of a discount with explanatory messaging.

## Study design

This is an interrupted time-series multi-site quasi-experiment with five
different interventions. The sites for the study were three hospitals. The first
two are urban settings, and the latter is suburban. The interventions were
conducted in the hospitals' cafeterias and convenience shops. Site A included
two cafeterias and two convenience shops; Site B, one cafeteria; and Site C, one
cafeteria and one convenience shop. At Site A, the registers were computerized
to take bar scans, so recording was automatic, and the discounts were
automatically added or removed, depending on the phase of the intervention. At
Sites B and C, cash registers were adjusted to charge appropriate discounts as
well as record sales of bottled zero-calorie and sugared beverages. Staff
entered purchases manually and were trained to correctly ring up the beverages.

The data were collected over 30 weeks, from October 27 to May 23. The two
interventions involving price discounts occurred from November 5 to December 22.
The three calorie messaging interventions were implemented from February 16 to
May 23. Several periods of non-intervention data were captured: (1) baseline
data before the first and third interventions and after the fifth intervention,
and (2) washout periods between interventions lasting 1â€“2 weeks. During the
washout periods, prices reverted to baseline, and all messaging posters and
signs were removed.

The two price interventions investigated the effect of discounting the price of
zero-calorie beverages. The specific interventions were (1) a 10% price discount
on all zero-calorie bottled beverages, with prices labeled accordingly, and (2)
a 10% price discount on all zero-calorie bottled beverages plus messaging that
explained the reason for the discount.

The three calorie messaging interventions examined the impact of alternative
visual calorie messaging on the purchase of bottled beverages. Like the price
discount messaging, the calorie messaging interventions were also delivered in
posters, flyers, and signs prominently displayed which promoted switching to
zero-calorie beverages by providing information about (1) the caloric content in
sugared beverages (e.g. 260 calories in a 20 ounce soda), (2) the amount of time
one would need to spend on a treadmill to burn the calories in a sugared
beverage (e.g. 50 minutes to burn off the 260 calories in a 20-ounce soda), and
(3) a combination. Both displays used the average calories in the bottled
sugared beverages sold across the sites (260 calories). Exercise equivalents
were estimated based on an average weight person (160 lbs) walking briskly (at 3
mph).

## Data collection

Daily sales of bottled sugared beverages and zero-calorie beverages during all
times within the study were measured. Bottled sugared beverages were defined as
beverages that were sweetened with sugar (including sucrose, fructose, corn
syrup), and included regular soft drinks and iced teas. Bottled zero-calorie
beverages were defined as beverages that contained no calories per serving and
included diet soft drinks, diet teas, and water. Since the items of interest
were bottled sugared beverages and zero-calorie beverages, a number of other
beverages were excluded (e.g. juices, milk, and coffee). Fountain-dispensed
beverages were also excluded because of the inability to discern the type of
beverage purchased.

## Question(s) of interest

1. Did the interventions lead to increases in zero-calorie beverages and/or
   decreases in sugary beverages?
1. Do the effects differ by site?
1. Does the combination of interventions lead to larger effects?
1. Does the calorie-equivalent messaging have larger impacts than the simple
   calorie admonishment?
